it never ceases to amaze me we all love
ourselves more than other people but
care more about their opinion than our
own people spend so much energy on
worrying about what other people think
about them the thing is it's a huge
waste of time especially in the age of
the individual the ancient Stoics were
ahead of time when it comes to the art
of not caring about how others perceive
them and in this video I will show you
their logical arguments to stop caring
what other people think
it's very easy to get caught up in this
ongoing collective worry about what
other people think and say about us even
if we don't know them marcus aurelius
was right when he said that we care more
about their opinions than our own but
why do we do this
well our desire to be liked probably
comes from a deeply rooted fear of being
abandoned in the tribal age
abandonment could easily mean death so
being liked was useful for survival we
can see this in animals as well dogs for
example are herd animals and dread to be
left alone so they cry and moan when
their owner leaves the house but when we
look at this in a logical way there's no
need to fear abandonment and in most
cases our lives aren't in danger when
other people don't like us or disapprove
of us yes it may be more preferable when
we are loved by our surroundings as it's
preferable for me to get a bunch of
likes on YouTube but we don't need it
for survival and we don't need it to be
happy as the Stoics would say a good
reputation is a preferred indifferent
it's nice to have but if we don't it
doesn't exclude virtues living in other
words if we live virtuously why should
we care what others think we know we
live in a good way and that's what
counts
wasn't Jesus Christ despised by the
masses despite the fact that he embodied
the good Roman Emperor and stoic
philosopher Marcus Aurelius wrote about
his contempt for validation seeking
behavior and I quote what is to be
prized an audience clapping no no more
than the clacking of the tongues which
is all that public praise amounts to a
clacking of tongues and quote when we
look at the very nature of receiving
validation from a physical audience
clapping to lice on Facebook what do we
see it's really nothing more than a few
bodily movements and some pixels on the
screen that gives a temporary rush of
pleasure
however validation never gives us
long-term contentment and also leads to
a craving for more thus it's pretty
useless to spend our lives
it nevertheless we often see that people
get upset when they don't receive the
validation they think they deserve or
when they find out that someone dislikes
them or even hates them in some cases a
simple and meaningless insult leads to
violence
the Stoics pointed out long ago that we
do not control the opinions of others
and at the things we do not control our
fickle the more we value things outside
our control the less control we have
let's face it no matter how much we try
there will always be people that don't
like us there will always be people that
are ungrateful hostile hateful mean etc
we often become resentful towards these
people and sometimes we spend a lifetime
thinking about the nasty things they
said here's what stoic philosopher
Epictetus said about this and a quote
when another blames you or hates you or
when men say anything injury is about
you approach their poor souls penetrate
within and see what kind of man they are
you will discover that there's no reason
to be concerned that these men have this
or that opinion about you and quote
resentment is like drinking poison and
waiting for the other person to die
it's a complete waste of time with a
little bit of compassion we'll see that
those who offend us are human beings -
there are many possible reasons why they
think what they think and say what they
say it may be ignorant bias frustration
or they might be pointing out something
that's truly deficient about us if the
letter is the case we have the option to
fix it or let it be no matter what we do
ruminating about someone else's dislike
- horses won't get us anywhere so it may
not be up to us what other people think
it's definitely up to us how we handle
it our ability to take position towards
the external world is what makes us
happy or not being hurt by other
people's opinions isn't caused by them
it's caused by our minds worrying about
things that are outside us and
irrelevant for our own mental well-being
simply put what other people think
is none of our business thank you for
watching
[Music]
you